{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red34\green34\blue34;\red17\green85\blue204;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sl276\slmult1\highlight0\fs40\lang9 Project Guidelines\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb360\sa120\sl240\slmult1\cf1\fs22 Watch our hackathon kickoff {\cf2\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OmR3MkfTwrc"}}{\fldrslt{here}}}}\f0\fs22  if you missed it!\cf0\fs32\par
General Instructions\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\cf1\b\fs22 Challenge\b0 : Choose any problem relevant to quantum information science and implement code in Python using Qiskit to address it. This can range from implementing an existing quantum algorithm to writing your own, simulating hardware level problems such as noise or different pulse sequences, or optimizing algorithms for certain conditions and implementations. Be creative! The only requirement is that you must use Qiskit.\par
\par
\b Submission Requirements\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl276\slmult1\b0 Submit your project as a github repository through this submission link\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone Your submission must include all of your code, clearly labeled - we suggest using a Jupyter notebook for this\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone Your submission must include a Readme page with your names, team name if you have one, and a description of the problem you set out to solve with overview of your solution\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone Any sources must be cited or linked on your Readme or in your code\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}You should submit a video, 2 minutes maximum, describing the problem and outlining your project. These will be played after submissions close, time permitting, and don\rquote t need to follow any specific format - they could be presentation style or anything else you choose\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone If you need more space to describe your project than the 2 minute video, you\rquote re welcome to include that in your Readme or separately in slides, uploaded to github\ul\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb360\sa120\sl240\slmult1\cf0\ulnone\fs32 Judging Criteria\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl276\slmult1\cf1\fs22 Creativity\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone Relevance to QIS and real world problems\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone Completeness\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone Presentation\ul\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb360\sa120\sl240\slmult1\ulnone Email us at {\cf2\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:quantum.ucla@gmail.com"}}{\fldrslt{quantum.ucla@gmail.com}}}}\f0\fs22  with any logistical questions. Good luck!\cf0\fs32  \par
Some Project Ideas\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl276\slmult1\cf1\b\fs22 Quantum Algorithm\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1440\sl276\slmult1\b0 Implement a known quantum algorithm(VQE, QAOA, QML, QNLP, Hamiltonian Simulation, etc)\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li2160\sl276\slmult1 Implementing a quantum algorithm on your own is a great way to get your hands dirty with quantum computing. We encourage beginners to consider this option.\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone The {\cf2\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://qiskit.org/textbook/"}}{\fldrslt{Qiskit Textbook}}}}\f0\fs22  is a great place to start and is particularly helpful for these types of projects. It covers many algorithms and is mostly beginner friendly.\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone Qiskit also has a {\cf2\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.youtube.com/qiskit"}}{\fldrslt{YouTube channel}}}}\f0\fs22  with many tutorials and lectures.\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\cf2{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.cambridge.org/highereducation/books/quantum-computation-and-quantum-information/01E10196D0A682A6AEFFEA52D53BE9AE#overview"}}{\fldrslt{Nielsen and Chuang}}}}\ulnone\f0\fs22  (first three chapters) is also a great resource for understanding the basics of these algorithms. It does get into more math and reasonings and is not quite necessary for the purpose of this Hackathon.\ul\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1440\sl276\slmult1\ulnone Taking it a step further: Benchmark the performance of an algorithm using different simulators or hardware backend\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li2160\sl276\slmult1 Many quantum computing companies/startups provide a backend that gives you access to their actual device(or simulators)! Try testing your algorithm\rquote s performance across various platforms. Some of these companies include IBM, Quantinuum, Amazon, IQM, Google.\ul\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1440\sl276\slmult1\ulnone Design a game that demonstrate a concept in quantum computing\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li2160\sl276\slmult1 {\cf2\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a1NZC5rqQD8"}}{\fldrslt{Here\rquote s}}}}\f0\fs22  one for example!\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone And {\cf2\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://medium.com/qiskit/these-amazing-quantum-computing-ideas-came-out-of-our-landmark-qiskit-hackathon-global-905a0063f8e5"}}{\fldrslt{here}}}}\f0\fs22  are a few more!\ul\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\b Quantum Software-hardware Interface\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1440\sl276\slmult1\b0 Qubit mapping optimizer\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li2160\sl276\slmult1 Before quantum algorithms are executed on a quantum computer, it needs to be compiled. That is, mapping the qubits from our algorithms to the physical qubits. Some algorithms favor a specific qubit topology, and how to optimally run an algorithm on a specific hardware is a really interesting problem itself. Here\rquote s a {\cf2\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://arxiv.org/abs/2109.06445"}}{\fldrslt{paper}}}}\f0\fs22  for reference.\ul\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1440\sl276\slmult1\ulnone Hardware-efficient Quantum Algorithms\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li2160\sl276\slmult1 Due to the limitations of contemporary(this is sometimes called Noisy Intermediate-Scale Quantum or NISQ era) quantum computing hardwares, many quantum algorithms(like Shor) can not be implemented with high efficiency. Recently, there has been much effort in designing quantum algorithms while considering the types of hardwares we have in the lab(surprisingly, hardware and software used to be very separated). This includes considering the limitations of the NISQ devices. Some of these ideas include algorithms run on the pulse level or algorithms that are inherently robust to noise. Consider {\cf2\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nature.com/articles/nature23879"}}{\fldrslt{Hardware-efficient VQE }}}}\f0\fs22 or this {\cf2\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nature.com/articles/s41534-021-00493-0"}}{\fldrslt{pulse-based VQE paper}}}}\f0\fs22 .\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1440\sl276\slmult1 Quantum Error Correction\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li2160\sl276\slmult1 All quantum computers we have in the lab right now are subject to noise(such as decoherence, crosstalk, etc). These noises cause loss of information during computation and impede us from building a fault-tolerant quantum computer. This is where quantum error correction comes in. Quantum error correction is a prominent field in quantum computing and is theorized to achieve fault-tolerant quantum computing. The Qiskit Textbook has a few sections on quantum error correction and here\rquote s a {\cf2\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/0034-4885/76/7/076001/meta?casa_token=CE5T4CK4DgMAAAAA:KqdJOMF2eMXepIN57Ymtj4j1fRoS1ZI-YNeoNbSw1nItMBMGKIFp4MVg_IOPUVk82JwURR69Kj4"}}{\fldrslt{review paper}}}}\f0\fs22  on quantum error correction. There are also many good resources online which are not listed here.\ul\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\b Quantum Hardware\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1440\sl276\slmult1\b0 Hardware simulator (e.g. superconducting, semiconductor, ion trap qubit)\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li2160\sl276\slmult1 This option would be a bit more challenging. You would need to have a good physical understanding of how these quantum hardwares work. Qiskit\rquote s textbook has a few chapters on how superconducting qubits work, and {\cf2\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://aip.scitation.org/doi/10.1063/1.5089550"}}{\fldrslt{this}}}}\f0\fs22  is a great review paper by Prof. Oliver\rquote s group at MIT for understanding superconducting qubits. One project idea would be building a hardware simulator that allows you to do pulse simulations. You can even implement {\cf2\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://arxiv.org/abs/2003.10132"}}{\fldrslt{quantum optimal control}}}}\f0\fs22  that converts logical quantum gates to microwave pulse signals. {\cf2\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://qutip.org/"}}{\fldrslt{QuTip}}}}\f0\fs22  would be super helpful in this case!\ul\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1440\sl276\slmult1\ulnone Explore quantum control with optimal pulse design\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li2160\sl276\slmult1 As mentioned in the option above.\ul\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\b Something else!! Be creative and surprise us!!\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\b0\par
\cf0  \par
\fs32\par
Useful Resources\cf1\fs22\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl276\slmult1\b Setting up Python and Qiskit\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1440\sl276\slmult1\b0 We suggest using a {\cf2\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://docs.jupyter.org/en/latest/install/notebook-classic.html"}}{\fldrslt{Jupyter notebook}}}}\f0\fs22  to run Python. In order to use Qiskit, you will have to install the Qiskit package. Instructions found here.\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone Alternatively, you can use {\cf2\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://quantum-computing.ibm.com/lab/files/qiskit-tutorials/tutorials/1_start_here.ipynb"}}{\fldrslt{IBM\rquote s built in environment}}}}\f0\fs22 , which does all the setup for you.\ul\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\b Documentation\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1440\sl276\slmult1 {\cf2\ul\b0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://qiskit.org/documentation/"}}{\fldrslt{Qiskit documentation}}}}\b0\f0\fs22  for different types of projects\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\cf2{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://qiskit.org/documentation/partners/qiskit_ibm_runtime/getting_started.html"}}{\fldrslt{Running a program on a backend}}}}\ulnone\f0\fs22 , either using IBM\rquote s environment or with an account and a Jupyter notebook.\ul\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\b Introductory notebooks and tutorials\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1440\sl276\slmult1 {\cf2\ul\b0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://qiskit.org/textbook/preface.html"}}{\fldrslt{Here}}}}\b0\f0\fs22  is the Qiskit textbook, which gives hundreds of code segments and demos you can look through.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\cf2\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-tutorials"}}{\fldrslt{Here}}}}\f0\fs22  is a Github repository dedicated solely to Qiskit tutorials. It includes notebooks on circuits, operators, and quantum simulators.\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\cf2{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://qiskit.org/documentation/tutorials.html"}}{\fldrslt{More tutorials}}}}\ulnone\f0\fs22  from IBM on quantum circuits, visualizations, operators, gates, simulators, and quantum algorithms.\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone Additional {\cf2\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/qiskit-community/qiskit-presentations"}}{\fldrslt{workshops and presentations}}}}\f0\fs22  on Github that people have created and used in the past for similar events.\ul\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\b Going further and learning more\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1440\sl276\slmult1\b0 If you\rquote d like to learn more and go into more depth, check out Nielsen & Chuang\rquote s Quantum Computation and Quantum Information.\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone For a more advanced text, try Barnett\rquote s Quantum Information.\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone If you\rquote re more interested in hardware specifics, look for review papers on specific platforms - be sure to check out the authors and the journal first.\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\ulnone If you have a stronger background, look into PhD theses on the subject, which typically ramp up from the very basics to some interesting specifics and provide more context than most papers.\ul\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\par
\cf0\fs32\par
Links from Kevin\rquote s Talk\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl276\slmult1\cf1\fs22 Summer {\cf2\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/posts/ibm-quantum_2023-ibm-quantum-summer-internship-applications-activity-6991394553677152256-XlTb"}}{\fldrslt{internship announcements}}}}\f0\fs22  and {\cf2\ul{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://youtu.be/JCY46vKgWFk"}}{\fldrslt{how to apply}}}}\f0\fs22  for internships\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\cf2{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/JanLahmann/RasQberry"}}{\fldrslt{RaspQberry}}}}\ulnone\f0\fs22 : Demos and running Qiskit on a Raspberry Pi\cf0  \cf1\ul\par
}
 